Linux boot and startup process comprised of following steps.

  1. BIOS POST
  2. Boot loader (GRUB2)
  3. Kernel initialization
  4. Start systemd, the parent of all processes.

BIOS POST:
  1. The first step of the Linux boot process really has nothing whatever to do with Linux.
  2. When power is applied, BIOS do the POST [Power on self test] on all hardware devices. 
      If any devices are not responding , you wil hear a beep sound.
  3. If POST fails , boot process will stop.
  4. BIOS issues, 'interrupt INT 13H' which locates 'boot sector' on each attached bootable device.
  5. 'Boot sector' that containes valid 'boot record' is loaded into RAM and control is transferred to the code that was loaded from boot sector.
  
The boot sector is really the first stage of the boot loader. There are 3 boot loaders used by most linux distributions. 

  1.GRUB
  2.GRUB2
  3.LILO

GRUB2 [GRand Unified Bootloader], version 2: 
  1. The primary function of GRUB is to get Linux kernel loaded into memory and running. Both GRUB1 and GRUB2 do the same job.
  2. GRUB2 is the primary boot loader for most current linux distributions. 
  3. GRUB2 makes computer smart enough to find the operating system kernel and load it into memory.
  4. GRUB has been designed to be compatible with the multiboot specification which allows GRUB to boot many versions of Linux and other free operating systems; it can also chain load the boot record of proprietary operating systems.

  5. GRUB1 is considered legacy.
  6. GRUB2 provides the same boot functionality of GRUB1 but GRUB2 is also a mainframe-like-command based pre-os environment and allows more flexibility during pre-boot phase.

  Stage1:
  1. The bootstrap code i.e GRUB2 stage 1, is very small because it must fit into the first 512 byte sector on the hard drive along with partition table.
  2. The total amount of space allocated for the actual bootstrap code in a classic generic MBR is 446 Bytes.
  3. 446 Byte file for the stage 1 is named boot.img and does not contain the partition table which is added to the boot record separately. 
  4. The solo purpose of stage 1 is to load stage 1.5 GRUB.
  5. After loading GRUB stage 1.5 into RAM, stage 1 turns controle over to stage 1.5.
  6. MBR sector is 0.
  
  Stage1.5: 
  1. 1.5 GRUB must be located in the space between boot record itself and first partition of the drive. 
  2. The first partition on the hard drive begins at sector 63 and with MBR in sector 0, that leaves 6 512 bytes sectors-31,744 bytes - in which to store the core.img file which is stage 1.5 of GRUB. 



 






