Linux boot and startup process comprised of following steps.

  1. BIOS POST
  2. Boot loader (GRUB2)
  3. Kernel initialization
  4. Start systemd, the parent of all processes.

BIOS POST:
  1. The first step of the Linux boot process really has nothing whatever to do with Linux.
  2. When power is applied, BIOS do the POST [Power on self test] on all hardware devices. 
      If any devices are not responding , you wil hear a beep sound.
  3. If POST fails , boot process will stop.
  4. BIOS issues, 'interrupt INT 13H' which locates 'boot sector' on each attached bootable device.
  5. 'Boot sector' that containes valid 'boot record' is loaded into RAM and control is transferred to the 
      code that was loaded from boot sector.
  6. BIOS searches, load and executes boot loader program, which can be found in MBR (Master boot record).
The boot sector is really the first stage of the boot loader. There are 3 boot loaders used by most linux distributions. 

  1.GRUB
  2.GRUB2
  3.LILO

GRUB2 [GRand Unified Bootloader], version 2: 
    1. The primary function of GRUB is to get Linux kernel loaded into memory and running. Both GRUB1 and GRUB2 do the same job.
    2. GRUB2 is the primary boot loader for most current linux distributions. 
    3. GRUB2 makes computer smart enough to find the operating system kernel and load it into memory.
    4. GRUB has been designed to be compatible with the multiboot specification which allows GRUB to boot many versions of Linux and other free operating systems; it can also chain load the boot record of proprietary operating systems.

    5. GRUB1 is considered legacy.
    6. GRUB2 provides the same boot functionality of GRUB1 but GRUB2 is also a mainframe-like-command based pre-os environment and allows more flexibility during pre-boot phase.
 https://opensource.com/article/17/2/linux-boot-and-startup
  Stage1:
    1. The bootstrap code i.e GRUB2 stage 1, is very small because it must fit into the first 512 byte sector on the hard drive along with partition table.
    2. The total amount of space allocated for the actual bootstrap code in a classic generic MBR is 446 Bytes.
    3. 446 Byte file for the stage 1 is named 'boot.img' and does not contain the partition table which is added to the boot record separately. 
    4. The solo purpose of stage 1 is to load stage 1.5 GRUB.
    5. After loading GRUB stage 1.5 into RAM, stage 1 turns controle over to stage 1.5.
    6. MBR sector is 0.
  
  Stage1.5: 
    1. 1.5 GRUB must be located in the space between boot record itself and first partition of the drive. 
    2. The first partition on the hard drive begins at sector 63 and with MBR in sector 0, 
        that leaves 6 512 bytes sectors-31,744 bytes - in which to store the 'core.img' file which is stage 1.5 of GRUB. 
    3. The core image file is 25,389 bytes, so there is plenty of space available between MBR and the first disk partition.
        it can have enough code to contain a few common filesystem drivers. 
    4. Stage2 of GRUB2 can be located on a standard EXT file system but it cannot be located on a logical volume. 
  Stage2:
    1. All of the files for GRUB stage 2 are located in the /boot/grub2 directory and several subdirectories. 
    2. GRUB2 does not have an image file like stages 1 and 1.5. 
    3. Instead, it consists mostly of runtime kernel modules that are loaded as needed from the /boot/grub2/i386-pc directory.

    4. Main function of GRUB2 stage2 is to locate and load a linux kernel into RAM and return control of computer to the kernel.
    5. Kernel and its associated files are located in /boot directory. 
    6. The kernel files are identifiable as they are all named starting with vmlinuz.
    7. You can list the contents of the /boot directory to see the currently installed kernels on your system.
  
   GRUB2 menu allows you to do couple of things
     1. It allows you to select Linux kernel version that you want to use. 
     2. It gives you that ability to edit some kernel parameters by pressing a combination of keyboard keys. 

  Kernel:
    1. All of the kernels are in a self-extracting, compressed format to save space. 
    2. The kernels are located in the /boot directory, along with inital RAM disk image and device maps of the hard drives.
    3. Once kernel extracts itself, it loads 'systemd' 
        [systemd is a software suite that provides an array of system components for Linux operating systems.
        Its main aim is to unify service configuration and behavior across Linux distributions.
        systemd's primary component is a "system and service manager"—an init system used to bootstrap user space and manage user processes]
  
  The startup process:
    systemd: 
    1. Mother of all process and it is responsible for bringing the linux host up to state in which productive work can be done. 
    2. 




 
https://opensource.com/article/17/2/linux-boot-and-startup





